=head1 OmniPITR

=encoding utf8

=head2 2013-08-23

=over

=item * Release of version 1.2.0

=item * --dst-pipe for omnipitr-backup-master, omnipitr-backup-slave and
omnipitr-archive

=item * support for using %r in omnipitr-restore for cleanup purposes

=item * --skip-xlog option to disable creation of xlog tarball from backup
processes

=item * various bugfixes

=back

=head2 2013-04-01

=over

=item * Release of version 1.1.0, including all changes since release 1.0.0

=back

=head2 2012-12-11

=over

=item * Provide support for --help option

=item * Add support for config file

=item * Add --version option to all programs.

=back

=head2 2012-12-04

=over

=item * Make temp directories based on PID, to allow easy running (for example)
2 slaves on the same machine.

=back

=head2 2012-12-04

=over

=item * Add option to make omnipitr-restore able to remove files from walarchive
before serving next xlog to PostgreSQL. This is important in cases where slave
falls back a lot, and it's catching up - but it doesn't start to remove old,
obsolete wal segments before it will fully catch up. Now, with new option
(--remove-before) it will delete old wal segments during catchup phase too.

=back

=head2 2012-08-08

=over

=item * Make sanity-check.sh return sensible exit code - pull from François
Beausoleil ( https://github.com/francois )

=back

=head2 2012-08-08

=over

=item * Fix log line parsing in omnipitr-monitor - the bug in there prevented
omnipitr-monitor from working when running on server with timezone "before" UTC
(for example UTC-0400).

=back

=head2 2012-07-02

=over

=item * Release of version 1.0.0

=item * Finally omnipitr-monitor is working

=back

=head2 2012-05-07

=over

=item * Release of version 0.7.0

=item * Cherry-pick wal segments for omnipitr-backup-slave, instead of archiving
whole WALARCHIVE

=back

=head2 2012-04-26

=over

=item * Release of version 0.6.0

=item * Support parallelism of delivery to remote destinations, and unpacking of
wal archives for omnipitr-backup-slave

=back

=head2 2012-03-30

=over

=item * Release of version 0.5.0

=item * Direct destination support - details: http://www.depesz.com/2012/03/30/omnipitr-0-5-0/

=back

=head2 2012-01-19

=over

=item * Release of version 0.4.0

=item * Fix handling of symlinks to walarchive in omnipitr-backup-slave

=back

=head2 2012-01-17

=over

=item * New program omnipitr-cleanup to be used as archive_cleanup_command in
recovery.conf - for streaming replication setups

=back

=head2 2012-01-11

=over

=item * Release version 0.3.1

=item * Fixed bug with handling digests, that could cause omnipitr-backup-master
or omnipitr-backup-slave to *not* make backup if bad digester was requested.

=back

=head2 2012-01-04

=over

=item * Release version 0.3.0

=item * Added omnipitr-synch program, to send PostgreSQL data in sane way to
remote machines (for example to setup new slave).

=item * Switch to use environment based perl interpreter, instead of hardcoding
path

=back

=head2 2011-12-14

=over

=item * Release version 0.2.1

=item * Change handling of IO to use external tools (tee) to avoid deadlocks
in case of slow compression

=back

=head2 2011-11-10

=over

=item * Release version 0.2.0

=item * Added ability to create checksums of backups, with --digest option for
omnipitr-backup-master and omnipitr-backup-slave programs

=back

=head2 2011-08-05

=over

=item * Release version 0.1.3

=item * Fixed bug with handling Minimum Recovery Location in slave backup

=back

=head2 2011-06-30

=over

=item * Release version 0.1.2

=item * Fixed bug with handling multiple local destinations for backups.

=back

=head2 2011-06-17

=over

=item * Release version 0.1.1

=item * Changed short version of --psql-path from -pp to -sp - -pp was already
taken by --pgcontrol-path. Bug reported by luoyi.

=back

=head2 2011-06-14

=over

=item * Release version 0.1.0

=back

=head2 2011-06-08

=over

=item * Fix slave backup on 9.0 systems (new option, -cm)

=item * Add test system, not really configurable now, but works, and lets me
easily verify that OmniPITR still works.

=item * Add (finally) versions. So far only to libraries. Can be read with:

    perl -I/opt/omnipitr/lib -le 'use OmniPITR::Program; print $OmniPITR::Program::VERSION'

=back

=head2 2011-05-18

=over

=item * Allow omnipitr-backup-master and omnipitr-backup-slave to work when data
dir path is given as symlink

=back

=head2 2011-03-24

=over

=item * Fix typo in generated .backup file - harmless as far as I know.

=back

=head2 2011-03-11

=over

=item * Fix handling of pidfile in backup-master and backup-slave programs. Bug
spotted by Albert Czarnecki

=back

=head2 2011-02-10

=over

=item * Make the IMMEDIATE finish of recovery actually work.

=item * Make omnipitr-backup-slave compatible with Streaming Replication in
PostgreSQL 9.0

=item * Add option (--streaming-replication) to make it possible to use
omnipitr-restore in 9.0 Streaming Replication environment.

=back

=head2 2011-01-27

=over

=item * Silence warning if source is not defined on the command line

=back

=head2 2011-01-27

=over

=item * Silence warning if source is not defined on the command line

=back

=head2 2011-01-24

=over

=item * Add detection of tar version to sanity-check.sh

=back

=head2 2011-01-20

=over

=item * Add internals.pod with first part of documentation of "how it works, and
why this way"

=back

=head2 2011-01-14

=over

=item * Locate any tablespaces in the data dir and include them in the backup
for both masters and slaves.  In the tar file these will be placed under the
'tablespaces' directory.

=back

=head2 2011-01-12

=over

=item * localize signal handler so that it does not get called outside of the
function call

=back

=head2 2011-01-05

=over

=item * Add proper stub for make_xlog_archive in OmniPITR::Program::Backup, that
enforces reimplementation in child classes.

=back

=head2 2010-09-28

=over

=item * Fix error with handling master backups where given data-dir contained
trailing / character

=back

=head2 2010-09-10

=over

=item * Fix error handling for pg_controldata

=back

=head2 2010-09-08

=over

=item * Add option to handle various ways of dealing with problems with calls to
pg_controldata (--error-pgcontroldata) to omnipitr-restore

=back

=head2 2010-09-07

=over

=item * Log whole response from pg_controldata in case there are problems with it

=back

=head2 2010-07-28

=over

=item * Add forgotten --nice-path to omnipitr-archive

=item * Add option not to use nice for omnipitr-archive, and both
omnipitr-backup-* programs

=back

=head2 2010-07-15

=over

=item * Added "IMPORTANT NOTICES" part to documents for omnipitr programs with
additional info that might not be obvious always.

=item * Added information about reuiring at least gnu tar 1.20 (earlier version
didn't have --transform option which is required by omnipitr-backup-slave)

=back

=head2 2010-06-30

=over

=item * Refactoring done.

=item * omnipitr-backup-slave in beta

=back

=head2 2010-06-29

=over

=item * First part of refactoring the code

=back

=head2 2010-06-28

=over

=item * Fix type in changelog (28 -> 23)

=item * Fix call to tar with 2 --transform options. Some tar versions don't
handle it well, and it's required for omnipitr-backup-slave

=item * Exclude whole pg_log and pg_xlog directories if these are symlinks - no
point in restoring them on slave system, and it's pretty common to be symlinked.

=back

=head2 2010-06-23

=over

=item * Fix description of -x option for omnipitr-backup-master

=item * Add information that one should remove finish recovery trigger after
successfull finish of wal replication.

=item * alpha version of omnipitr-backup-slave

=back

=head2 2010-06-12

=over

=item * Fix ommission in workaround for PostgreSQL 8.2 and 8.3 - regarding order
of xlog segments.

=back

=head2 2010-06-10

=over

=item * Fix bug caused by silencing rm - destination-backup directory wasn't
removed after successful exit of backup.

=back

=head2 2010-06-07

=over

=item * Silence rmtree - disable confirmation message to be printed to screen -
to make sure cron jobs with backup don't create irrelevant mails.

=back

=head2 2010-06-05

=over

=item * Added documentation about requirements

=item * Added workaround for PostgreSQL 8.2 and 8.3, which do not wait for .backup
"wal segment" to be archived before returning control from pg_stop_backup()
call.

=item * Added changelog

=back

=head2 COPYRIGHT

The OmniPITR project is Copyright (c) 2009-2013 OmniTI. All rights reserved.
