=head1 OmniPITR - Installation

=head2 INSTALLATION

You can get the OmniPITR project from L<https://labs.omniti.com/pgsoltools/trunk/omnipitr>. Within this directory you will find set of directories:

=over

=item * bin/

This is where the scripts reside - usually this is the only place you need to
look into.

=item * doc/

Documentation. In Plain Old Documentation format, so you can view it practically
everywhere Perl is with I<perldoc> command.

=item * lib/

Here be dragons. Don't look. Don't touch. Be afraid.

=back

After fetching the omnipitr project/directory, put it in any place in your
filesystem you'd want. Usually you will keep all of these together, but you can
always remove the docs, put the scripts in some system bin/ directory, and put
libs anyplace you want - just make sure that path to them is in I<PERL5LIB>
environment variable.

In case you will not decide to split the distribution - i.e. you will have
someplace in your system I<omnipitr> directory, which will contain I<bin/> and
I<lib/> directories (just like it is distributed) - you don't have to set
I<PERL5LIB> - scripts will automatically find their libs.

=head2 SANITY CHECK

After installation it's good to run I<sanity-check.sh> script (from I<bin/>)
directory - it will check if all prerequisites are available.

Output might look like this:

    postgres@server:~$ omnipitr/bin/sanity-check.sh
    Checking:
    - /var/lib/postgres/omnipitr/bin
    - /var/lib/postgres/omnipitr/lib
    5 programs, 7 libraries.
    All checked, and looks ok.

or like this:

    postgres@server:~$ omnipitr/bin/sanity-check.sh
    Checking:
    - /var/lib/postgres/omnipitr/bin
    - /var/lib/postgres/omnipitr/lib
    5 programs, 7 libraries.
    Warnings:
    - you don't have ssh program available
    - you don't have rsync program available
    - your Perl is old (we support only 5.8 or newer. OmniPITR might work, but was not tested on your version of Perl)
    Errors:
    - you don't have any of programs used to transmit WAL files (ssh, rsync)
    - you don't have POSIX Perl library (should be installed together with Perl)
    All checked. 3 warnings, 2 errors.

Depending on your particular usecase even the errors don't have to be fatal -
for example, if your I<rsync>/I<ssh> binary is in directory that is not in
I<$PATH> - it will not be found by sanity-check.sh, but you can always provide
paths to them via I<--rsync-binary> or I<--ssh-binary> options to I<omnipitr-*>
scripts.

After I<sanity-check.sh> returned C<All checked, and looks ok.> you should be
good with starting using the scripts.

=head2 INITIAL SETUP

To start Wal replication you will need to:

=over

=item 1. Start archiving wal segments: I<omnipitr-archive>

=item 2. Make initial hot backup on master: I<omnipitr-master-backup>

=item 3. Transfer the backup to slave server(s)

=item 4. Start PostgreSQL recovery from hot-backup: I<omnipitr-restore>

=back

Afterwards you can/should monitor replication parameters with
I<omnipitr-monitor>, and that would be all. Of course you can do hot-backups on
slave (with I<omnipitr-slave-backup>) at any moment - just remember that doing
them on slave requires more disc space - details in
I<omnipitr-slave-backup.pod>.

=head2 HINTS

It is technically possible, and suggested to use the same logfiles for all
programs running on given server.

That is - you can setup archival to log to "archive.log" and backup to log to
"backup.log", but you can make them both log to "omnipitr.log" - it will not
break anything, and makes it simpler to manage log files.

Same thing applies to state directories - these can be the same between various
programs from I<OmniPITR> package.

When creating any files I<OmniPITR> obeys ulimit, but doesn't enforce any
additional restrictions. So, if you'd like it to create files that are readable
only to owner, simply run it like this:

    umask 0077; omnipitr-something ....

=head2 COPYRIGHT

The OmniPITR project is Copyright (c) 2009-2010 OmniTI. All rights reserved.

