=head1 OmniPITR

=head2 OVERVIEW

OmniPITR is a set of scripts to ease setting up WAL replication, and making hot backups from both Master and Slave systems.

This set of scripts has been written to make the operation seamless, secure and as light on resources-usage as possible.

To make it portable, it was written in Perl, but with assumption that it should work on any Perl installation - i.e. no dependencies on non-base Perl modules.

=head2 INSTALLATION

/* Simply fetch the directory L<https://github.com/omniti-labs/omnipitr>, and you're done. More details are in I<doc/install.pod>. */

=head2 USAGE

There is a set of scripts in bin/ directory. All named I<omnipitr-*> are scripts meant for general usage (others are not really useful unless you'll encounter some problems).

For every one of them you will have documentation in I<doc/B<SCRIPT_NAME>.pod> - for example documentation for I<omnipitr-archive> script is in I<doc/omnipitr-archive.pod>.

Quick list of programs:

=over

=item * omnipitr-archive

This should be used on master server, as I<archive_command> command, setup in
postgresql.conf.

=item * omnipitr-restore

This should be used on slave server/servers, as I<restore_command> command in
recovery.conf file.

=item * omnipitr-master-backup

Used to make hot backup on master DB server.

=item * omnipitr-slave-backup

Used to make hot backup on slave DB server.

=item * omnipitr-monitor

General script for I<Nagios>/I<Cacti> type of systems - monitoring, graphing. Provides a way to check for replication lag, last backup timestamp, and other metrics.

=back

In most of the cases you can simply call the program you want to use with I<--help> option to get brief overview of command line options.

=head2 SUPPORT

Currently there is simply mailing list that you can subscribe, and post your
questions/problems to.

Maling list page (includes option to subscribe, and view archives) is available
here: http://lists.omniti.com/mailman/listinfo/pgtreats-users/

=head2 COPYRIGHT

The OmniPITR project is Copyright (c) 2009-2012 OmniTI. All rights reserved.
