=head1 OmniPITR - omnipitr-backup-master

=head2 USAGE

/some/path/omnipitr/bin/omnipitr-backup-master [options]

Options:

=over

=item --data-dir (-D)

Where PostgreSQL datadir is located (path)

=item --database (-d)

Which database to connect to to issue required SQL queries. Defaults to
template1.

=item --host (-h)

Which host to connect to when connecting to database to backup. Shouldn't really
be changed in 99% of cases. Defaults to empty string - i.e. use UNIX sockets.

=item --port (-p)

Which port to connect to when connecting to database. Defaults to 5432.

=item --username (-U)

What username to use when connecting to database. Defaults to postgres.

=item --xlogs (-x)

Directory that will be created. Then - will be used as source of xlogs to
archive. Afterwards - it will be removed. This directory should be the same as
--dst-backup for omnipitr-archive, and it shouldn't exist before running
I<omnipitr-backup-master>.

=item --dst-local (-dl)

Where to copy the hot backup files on current server (you can provide many of
these).

You can also specify compression per-destination. Check L<COMPRESSION>
section of the doc.

=item --dst-remote (-dr)

Where to copy the hot backup files on remote server. Supported ways to transport
files are rsync and rsync over ssh. Please see L<DESCRIPTION> for more
information (you can provide many of these)

You can also specify compression per-destination. Check L<COMPRESSION>
section of the doc.

=item --temp-dir (-t)

Where to create temporary files (defaults to /tmp or I<$TMPDIR> environment
variable location)

=item --state-dir (-s)

Name of directory to use as state-directory to handle errors when sending wal
segments to many locations.

=item --log (-l)

Name of logfile (actually template, as it supports %% L<strftime(3)>
markers. Unfortunately due to the %x usage by PostgreSQL, We cannot use %%
macros directly. Instead - any occurence of ^ character in log dir will be first
changed to %, and later on passed to strftime.

=item --filename-template (-f)

Template for naming output files. Check L<FILENAMES> section for details.

=item --pid-file

Name of file to use for pidfile. If it is specified, than only one copy of
I<omnipitr-backup-master> (with this pidfile) can run at the same time.

Trying to run second copy of I<omnipitr-backup-master> will result in an error.

=item --verbose (-v)

Log verbosely what is happening.

=item --not-nice (-nn)

Do not use nice for compressions.

=item --gzip-path (-gp)

Full path to gzip program - in case you can't set proper PATH environment
variable.

=item --bzip2-path (-bp)

Full path to bzip2 program - in case you can't set proper PATH environment
variable.

=item --lzma-path (-lp)

Full path to lzma program - in case you can't set proper PATH environment
variable.

=item --nice-path (-np)

Full path to nice program - in case you can't set proper PATH environment
variable.

=item --tar-path (-tp)

Full path to tar program - in case you can't set proper PATH environment
variable.

=item --rsync-path (-rp)

Full path to rsync program - in case you can't set proper PATH environment
variable.

=item --psql-path (-pp)

Full path to psql program - in case you can't set proper PATH environment
variable.

=item --tee-path

Full path to tee program - in case you can't set proper PATH environment
variable.

=item --checksum-path (-cp)

Full path to some checksumming program (e.g. md5sum). Without passing this
option you will not get checksumming.

=back

=head2 DESCRIPTION

Running this program should be done by cronjob, or manually by database
administrator.

As a result of running it there are 2 files, usually named
HOST-data-YYYY-MM-DD.tar and HOST-xlog-YYYY-MM-DD.tar. These files can be
optionally compressed and delivered to many places - both local (on the same
server) or remote (via rsync).

Which options should be given depends only on installation, but generally you
will need at least:

=over

=item * --data-dir

Backup will process files in this directory.

=item * --log

to make sure that information is logged someplace about archiving progress

=item * one of --dst-local or --dst-remote

to specify where to send the backup files to

=back

Of course you can provide many --dst-local or many --dst-remote or many mix of
these.

Generally omnipitr-backup-master will try to deliver WAL segment to all
destinations. In case remote destination will fail, omnipitr-backup-master will
retry 3 times, with 5 minute delay between tries.

In case of errors when writing to local destination - it is skipped, and error
is logged.

Backups will be transferred to destinations in this order:

=over

=item 1. All B<local> destinations, in order provided in command line

=item 2. All B<remote> destinations, in order provided in command line

=back

=head3 Remote destination specification

I<omnipitr-backup-master> delivers backup files to destination using rsync
program.  Both direct-rsync and rsync-over-ssh are supported (it's better to use
direct rsync - it uses less resources due to lack of encryption.

Destination url/location should be in a format that is usable by I<rsync>
program.

For example you can use:

=over

=item * rsync://user@remote_host/module/path/

=item * host:/path/

=back

To allow remote delivery you need to have rsync program. In case you're using
rsync over ssh, I<ssh> program has also to be available.

In case your rsync/ssh programs are in custom directories simply set I<$PATH>
environemnt variable before starting PostgreSQL.

=head2 COMPRESSION

Every destination can have specified compression. To use it you should prefix
destination path/url with compression type followed by '=' sign.

Allowed compression types:

=over

=item * gzip

Compresses with gzip program, used file extension is .gz

=item * bzip2

Compresses with bzip2 program, used file extension is .bz2

=item * lzma

Compresses with lzma program, used file extension is .lzma

=back

All compressions are done I<on B<NICE>> to make the operation as unobtrusive as
possible.

If you want to pass any extra arguments to compression program, you can either:

=over

=item * make a wrapper

Write a program/script that will be named in the same way your actual
compression program is named, but adding some parameters to call

=item * use environment variables

All of supported compression programs use environment variables:

=over

=item * gzip - GZIP

=item * bzip2 - BZIP2

=item * lzma - XZ_OPT

=back

For details - please consult manual to your choosen compression tool.

=back

B<It is strongly suggest to use only 1 compression method for all destinations>

=head2 FILENAMES

Naming of files for backups might be important depending on deployment.

Generally, generated filenames are named using templates, with default template
being:

    __HOSTNAME__-__FILETYPE__-^Y-^m-^d.tar__CEXT__

Within template (specified with --filename-template option) you can use
following markers:

=over

=item * __HOSTNAME__

Name of server backup is made on - as reported by L<hostname(1)> program.

=item * __FILETYPE__

It is actually required to have __FILETYPE__ - it specifies whether the file
contains data (data) or xlog segments (xlog)

=item * __CEXT__

Based on compression algorithm choosen for given delivery. Can be empty (no
compression), or contains dot (.) and literal extension associated with choosen
compression program.

=item * any ^? markers

like in L<strftime(3)> call, but ^ will be changed to % first.

=back

Filename template is evaluated at start, so any timestamp (^? markers) will
relate to date/time of beginning of backup process.

=head2 TABLESPACES

If I<omnipitr-backup-master> detects additional tablespaces, they will be
also compressed to generated tarball.

Since the full path to the tablespace directory is important, and should be preserved,
and normally tar doesn't let you store files which path starts with "/" (as it
would be dangerous), I<omnipitr-backup-master> uses the following approach:

all tablespaces will be stored in tar, and upon extraction they will be put in
the directory "tablespaces", and under it - there will be the full path to the tablespace
directory.

For example:

Assuming PostgreSQL PGDATA is in /var/lib/pgsql/data, and it has 3 extra
tablespaces placed in:

=over

=item * /mnt/san/tablespace

=item * /home/whatever/xxx

=item * /media/ssd

=back

generated DATA tarball will contain 2 directories:

=item * data - copy of /var/lib/pgsql/data

=item * tablespaces - which contains full directory structure leading to:

=over

=item * tablespaces/mnt/san/tablespace - copy of /mnt/san/tablespace

=item * tablespaces/home/whatever/xxx - copy of /home/whatever/xxx

=item * tablespaces/media/ssd - copy of /media/ssd

=back

=back

Thanks to this approach, if you'll create symlink "tablespaces" pointing to root
directory (I<ln -s / tablespaces>) B<before> exploding tarball - all tablespace
files will be created already in the correct places. This is of course not
necessary, but will help if you'd ever need to recover from such backup.

=head2 EXAMPLES

=head3 Minimal setup, with copying file to local directory:

    /.../omnipitr-backup-master -D /mnt/data -l /var/log/omnipitr/backup.log -dl /mnt/backups/

=head3 Minimal setup, with compression, and copying file to remote directory over rsync:

    /.../omnipitr-backup-master -D /mnt/data/ -l /var/log/omnipitr/backup.log -dr bzip2=rsync://slave/postgres/backups/

=head3 2 remote, compressed destinations, 1 local, with auto rotated logfile,
and modified filenames

    /.../omnipitr-backup-master -D /mnt/data/ -l /var/log/omnipitr/backup-^Y-^m-^d.log -dr bzip2=rsync://slave/postgres/backups/ -dr gzip=backups:/mnt/hotbackups/ -dl /mnt/backups/ -f "main-__FILETYPE__-^Y^m^d_^H^M^S.tar__CEXT__"

=head2 IMPORTANT NOTICES

=over

=item * It I<omnipitr-backup-master> will get stopped in B<hard> way (kill -9,
or multiple ctrl-c - it is possible that it will leave database with backup mode
still enabled. So, to prevent future problems with it, if you had to B<hard>
stop it - remember to connect to postgresql and issue:

    SELECT pg_stop_backup();

=item * I<omnipitr-backup-master> should be running from the same system account
as PostgreSQL. It is technically possible to make it work with running from
another account, but it will definitely be more complicated and error-prone.

=back

=head2 COPYRIGHT

The OmniPITR project is Copyright (c) 2009-2010 OmniTI. All rights reserved.

