=head1 OmniPITR - omnipitr-backup-cleanup

=head2 USAGE

/some/path/omnipitr/bin/omnipitr-backup-cleanup [options]

Options:

=over

=item --archive (-a)

Where archived wal segments are kept.

Check L<Storage dir specification> for more details.

=item --backup-dir (-b)

Location of backup directory.

Check L<Storage dir specification> for more details.

=item --filename-template (-f)

Template for naming output files. Should be the same as was used for making
the backup by L<omnipitr-backup-master> or L<omnipitr-backup-slave>.

Defaults to the same value that these scripts use, so if you didn't change it
for making backups, you don't need to specify it in here.

=item --keep-days (-k)

How long to keep backups. Defaults to 7 days.

=item --truncate (-t)

If the file is larger than --truncate, it will be removed in steps. Each step
will remove --truncate bytes from the end of file, until the file will be
smaller than --truncate. At this time the remaining part of file will be
removed normally.

If the value is 0 (default) - then regardless of size, file will be removed in
one step.

This is to prevent huge IO on certain filesystems (ext3 on Linux for example)
when removing huge files.

=item --sleep (-s)

How many miliseconds to wait between truncate runs.

When the truncating method is not used (--truncate 0, or file is too small)
- there is no wait. But if truncating happens, after each truncate sleep of
given number of miliseconds is used to make the removal take longer, but with
lower I/O impact.

=item --log (-l)

Name of logfile (actually template, as it supports %% L<strftime(3)>
markers. Unfortunately due to the %x usage by PostgreSQL, We cannot use %%
macros directly. Instead - any occurence of ^ character in log dir will be first
changed to %, and later on passed to strftime.

Please note that on some systems (Solaris for example) default shell treats ^ as
special character, which requires you to quote the log filename (if it contains
^ character). So you'd better write it as:

    --log '/var/log/omnipitr-^Y-^m-^d.log'

=item --verbose (-v)

Log verbosely what is happening.

=item --version (-V)

Prints version of I<omnipitr-backup-cleanup>, and exists.

=item --help (-?)

Prints this manual, and exists.

=item --config-file (--config / --cfg)

Loads options from config file.

Format of the file is very simple - each line is treated as argument with
optional value.

Examples:

    --verbose
    --archive /mnt/wal_archive
    --backup-dir /mnt/backups
    --log /tmp/log

It is important that you don't need to quote the values - value will always
be up to the end of line (trailing spaces will be removed). So if you'd
want, for example, to have magic-option set to "/mnt/badly named directory",
you'd need to quote it when setting from command line:

    /some/omnipitr/program --magic-option="/mnt/badly named directory"

but not in config:

    --magic-option=/mnt/badly named directory

Empty lines, and comment lines (starting with #) are ignored.

=back

=head2 DESCRIPTION

Call to I<omnipitr-backup-cleanup> should (generally) be in some kind of
scheduler - like crontab.

Set of options that you prefer depends on your situation, but at the very
least you need three options:

=over

=item * --backup-dir= - where are your backups. Please note that you have to
have backups made with OmniPITR v.1.3.0 at least, as previous versions didn't
have "meta" files.

=item * --archive-dir= - where are xlog files. These should be xlogs generated
by the same system that the backups are for.

=item * --log= - where to store logs about removal. You can use "-" as log
value, it will redirect logs to stdout.

=back

=head3 Storage dir specification

Directory is, in simplest situation, just a path. Usually, though, you will
have some kind of compression on one or both of the directories (backups,
archives).

In case of compression, you use the same syntax in every other omnipitr-*
program - that is you prefix path with compression type and "=" sign.

Allowed compression types:

=over

=item * gzip

Used file extension is .gz

=item * bzip2

Used file extension is .bz2

=item * lzma

Used file extension is .lzma

=back

=head2 EXAMPLES

=head3 Minimal setup:

    /path/to/omnipitr-backup-cleanup -a /mnt/wal_archive -b /mnt/backups -l -

=head3 Compressed archive and backup dir, non default number of days to keep
backups, and store logs

    /path/to/omnipitr-backup-cleanup -a gzip=/mnt/wal_archive -b gzip=/mnt/backups -l /var/log/omnipitr-backup-cleanup.log -v -k 3

=head2 COPYRIGHT

The OmniPITR project is Copyright (c) 2009-2013 OmniTI. All rights reserved.

