=head1 OmniPITR - omnipitr-backup-slave

=head2 USAGE

/some/path/omnipitr/bin/omnipitr-backup-slave [options]

Options:

=over

=item --data-dir (-D)

Where PostgreSQL datadir is located (path)

=item --database (-d)

Which database to connect to to issue required SQL queries. Defaults to
template1.

This is used only when --call-master is given.

=item --host (-h)

Which host to connect to when connecting to database to backup. Shouldn't really
be changed in 99% of cases. Defaults to empty string - i.e. use UNIX sockets.

This is used only when --call-master is given.

=item --port (-P)

Which port to connect to when connecting to database. Defaults to 5432.

This is used only when --call-master is given.

=item --username (-U)

What username to use when connecting to database. Defaults to postgres.

This is used only when --call-master is given.

=item --source (-s)

Where are WAL files delivered by L<omnipitr-archive> and used by
L<omnipitr-restore>

You can also specify compression for source. Check L<COMPRESSION>
section of the doc.

=item --dst-local (-dl)

Where to copy the hot backup files on current server (you can provide many of
these).

You can also specify compression per-destination. Check L<COMPRESSION>
section of the doc.

=item --dst-remote (-dr)

Where to copy the hot backup files on remote server. Supported ways to transport
files are rsync and rsync over ssh. Please see L<DESCRIPTION> for more
information (you can provide many of these)

You can also specify compression per-destination. Check L<COMPRESSION>
section of the doc.

=item --temp-dir (-t)

Where to create temporary files (defaults to /tmp or I<$TMPDIR> environment
variable location)

=item --log (-l)

Name of logfile (actually template, as it supports %% L<strftime(3)>
markers. Unfortunately due to the %x usage by PostgreSQL, We cannot use %%
macros directly. Instead - any occurence of ^ character in log dir will be first
changed to %, and later on passed to strftime.

Please note that on some systems (Solaris for example) default shell treats ^ as
special character, which requires you to quote the log filename (if it contains
^ character). So you'd better write it as:

    --log '/var/log/omnipitr-^Y-^m-^d.log'

=item --filename-template (-f)

Template for naming output files. Check L<FILENAMES> section for details.

=item --pid-file

Name of file to use for pidfile. If it is specified, than only one copy of
I<omnipitr-backup-slave> (with this pidfile) can run at the same time.

Trying to run second copy of I<omnipitr-backup-slave> will result in an error.

=item --removal-pause-trigger (-p)

name of file to be created to pause removal of old/obsolete segments. Should be
the same as condigured removal-pause-trigger for L<omnipitr-restore>. 

=item --call-master (-cm)

If this option is given, L<omnipitr-backup-slave> will issue

    SELECT pg_start_backup( '...' );

and

    SELECT pg_stop_backup()

on master database.

Backups on PostgreSQL 9.0+, on slave, without --call-master can fail when later
used.

=item --verbose (-v)

Log verbosely what is happening.

=item --not-nice (-nn)

Do not use nice for compressions.

=item --digest (-dg)

Digest method to use (eg MD5 or SHA-1) for checksumming. Can be a comma
seperated list to use multiple digest algorithms.

For details please check L<CHECKSUMMING> below.

=item --gzip-path (-gp)

Full path to gzip program - in case you can't set proper PATH environment
variable.

=item --bzip2-path (-bp)

Full path to bzip2 program - in case you can't set proper PATH environment
variable.

=item --lzma-path (-lp)

Full path to lzma program - in case you can't set proper PATH environment
variable.

=item --nice-path (-np)

Full path to nice program - in case you can't set proper PATH environment
variable.

=item --tar-path (-tp)

Full path to tar program - in case you can't set proper PATH environment
variable.

=item --tee-path (-ep)

Full path to tee program - in case you can't set proper PATH environment
variable.

=item --psql-path (-sp)

Full path to psql program - in case you can't set proper PATH environment
variable.

=item --rsync-path (-rp)

Full path to rsync program - in case you can't set proper PATH environment
variable.

=item --pgcontroldata-path (-pp)

Full path to pg_controldata program - in case you can't set proper PATH
environment variable.

=item --shell-path (-sh)

Full path to shell to be used when calling compression/archiving/checksumming.

It is important becaus the shell needs to support >( ... ) constructions.

One of the shells that do support it is bash, and this is the default value for
--shell-path. You can substitute different shell if you're sure it supports
mentioned construction.

=back

=head2 DESCRIPTION

Running this program should be done by cronjob, or manually by database
administrator.

As a result of running it there are 2 files, usually named
HOST-data-YYYY-MM-DD.tar and HOST-xlog-YYYY-MM-DD.tar. These files can be
optionally compressed and delivered to many places - both local (on the same
server) or remote (via rsync).

Which options should be given depends only on installation, but generally you
will need at least:

=over

=item * --data-dir

Backup will process files in this directory.

=item * --log

to make sure that information is logged someplace about archiving progress

=item * one of --dst-local or --dst-remote

to specify where to send the backup files to

=back

Of course you can provide many --dst-local or many --dst-remote or many mix of
these.

Generally omnipitr-backup-slave will try to deliver WAL segment to all
destinations. In case remote destination will fail, omnipitr-backup-slave will
retry 3 times, with 5 minute delay between tries.

In case of errors when writing to local destination - it is skipped, and error
is logged.

Backups will be transferred to destinations in this order:

=over

=item 1. All B<local> destinations, in order provided in command line

=item 2. All B<remote> destinations, in order provided in command line

=back

=head3 Remote destination specification

I<omnipitr-backup-slave> delivers backup files to destination using rsync
program.  Both direct-rsync and rsync-over-ssh are supported (it's better to use
direct rsync - it uses less resources due to lack of encryption.

Destination url/location should be in a format that is usable by I<rsync>
program.

For example you can use:

=over

=item * rsync://user@remote_host/module/path/

=item * host:/path/

=back

To allow remote delivery you need to have rsync program. In case you're using
rsync over ssh, I<ssh> program has also to be available.

In case your rsync/ssh programs are in custom directories simply set I<$PATH>
environemnt variable before starting PostgreSQL.

=head2 COMPRESSION

Every destination (and source of xlogs) can have specified compression. To use
it you should prefix destination path/url with compression type followed by '='
sign.

Allowed compression types:

=over

=item * gzip

Compresses with gzip program, used file extension is .gz

=item * bzip2

Compresses with bzip2 program, used file extension is .bz2

=item * lzma

Compresses with lzma program, used file extension is .lzma

=back

If you want to pass any extra arguments to compression program, you can either:

=over

=item * make a wrapper

Write a program/script that will be named in the same way your actual
compression program is named, but adding some parameters to call

=item * use environment variables

All of supported compression programs use environment variables:

=over

=item * gzip - GZIP

=item * bzip2 - BZIP2

=item * lzma - XZ_OPT

=back

For details - please consult manual to your choosen compression tool.

=back

B<It is strongly suggest to use only 1 compression method for all destinations>

=head2 CHECKSUMMING

OmniPITR can (since version 0.2.0) calculate checksums of created files.

To calculate the checksums, OmniPITR uses Digest Perl module (part of standard
Perl distribution).

Digest module supports (now) 5 different types of checksums:

=over

=item * MD5 - standard md5 algorithm

=item * SHA-1 - SHA-1 algorithm

=item * SHA-256 - SHA-2 algorithm with hash size of 256 bits

=item * SHA-384 - SHA-2 algorithm with hash size of 384 bits

=item * SHA-512 - SHA-2 algorithm with hash size of 512 bits

=back

If you'll choose to use checksums, for every type of checksum (you can specify
--digest=MD5,SHA-512) there will be one additional file created, named just like
data and xlog tarbals, but with __FILETYPE__ part of filename (details in
L<FILENAMES>) changed to digest name.

So, with filename template being __FILETYPE__.tar__CEXT__, gzip compression and
MD5 checksumming, you will get 3 files:

=over

=item * data.tar.gz

=item * xlog.tar.gz

=item * MD5.tar.gz

=back

It is important to understand that the checksum file is plain text, and the
parts of its name that suggest tar.gz as just "leftovers" from filename
template.

After creation, such checksum file can be verified with:

    md5sum -c MD5.tar.gz

=head2 FILENAMES

Naming of files for backups might be important depending on deployment.

Generally, generated filenames are named using templates, with default template
being:

    __HOSTNAME__-__FILETYPE__-^Y-^m-^d.tar__CEXT__

Within template (specified with --filename-template option) you can use
following markers:

=over

=item * __HOSTNAME__

Name of server backup is made on - as reported by L<hostname(1)> program.

=item * __FILETYPE__

It is actually required to have __FILETYPE__ - it specifies whether the file
contains data (data) or xlog segments (xlog)

=item * __CEXT__

Based on compression algorithm choosen for given delivery. Can be empty (no
compression), or contains dot (.) and literal extension associated with choosen
compression program.

=item * any ^? markers

like in L<strftime(3)> call, but ^ will be first changed to %.

=back

Filename template is evaluated at start, so any timestamp (^? markers) will
relate to date/time of beginning of backup process.

=head2 TABLESPACES

If I<omnipitr-backup-master> detects additional tablespaces, they will be
also compressed to generated tarball.

Since the full path to the tablespace directory is important, and should be preserved,
and normally tar doesn't let you store files which path starts with "/" (as it
would be dangerous), I<omnipitr-backup-master> uses the following approach:

all tablespaces will be stored in tar, and upon extraction they will be put in
the directory "tablespaces", and under it - there will be the full path to the tablespace
directory.

For example:

Assuming PostgreSQL PGDATA is in /var/lib/pgsql/data, and it has 3 extra
tablespaces placed in:

=over

=item * /mnt/san/tablespace

=item * /home/whatever/xxx

=item * /media/ssd

=back

generated DATA tarball will contain 2 directories:

=item * data - copy of /var/lib/pgsql/data

=item * tablespaces - which contains full directory structure leading to:

=over

=item * tablespaces/mnt/san/tablespace - copy of /mnt/san/tablespace

=item * tablespaces/home/whatever/xxx - copy of /home/whatever/xxx

=item * tablespaces/media/ssd - copy of /media/ssd

=back

=back

Thanks to this approach, if you'll create symlink "tablespaces" pointing to root
directory (I<ln -s / tablespaces>) B<before> exploding tarball - all tablespace
files will be created already in the correct places. This is of course not
necessary, but will help if you'd ever need to recover from such backup.

=head2 EXAMPLES

=head3 Minimal setup, with copying file to local directory:

    /.../omnipitr-backup-slave -D /mnt/data -l /var/log/omnipitr/backup.log -dl /mnt/backups/

=head3 Minimal setup, with compression, and copying file to remote directory over rsync:

    /.../omnipitr-backup-slave -D /mnt/data/ -l /var/log/omnipitr/backup.log -dr bzip2=rsync://slave/postgres/backups/

=head3 2 remote, compressed destinations, 1 local, with auto rotated logfile,
and modified filenames

    /.../omnipitr-backup-slave -D /mnt/data/ -l /var/log/omnipitr/backup-^Y-^m-^d.log -dr bzip2=rsync://slave/postgres/backups/ -dr gzip=backups:/mnt/hotbackups/ -dl /mnt/backups/ -f "main-__FILETYPE__-^Y^m^d_^H^M^S.tar__CEXT__"

=head2 IMPORTANT NOTICES

=over

=item * If you're using compressed source dir (wal archive) -
I<omnipitr-backup-slave> has to uncompress all of xlogs before putting them in
.tar.XX. This means that you should have enough free disk space for this purpose
in the place where you create temporary directories. Alternarively - do not use
compression for sending WAL segments to standby server - in this case -
decompression will not be necessary.

=item * I<omnipitr-backup-slave> compresses whole source directory - i.e. all
files from there. This means that if you're using delay recovery (-w option to
I<omnipitr-restore>) - there will be more files there, and backup will be
larger. This is especially important if you're using compressed wal archive
(please see note above)

=item * If you're using L<omnipitr-backup-slave> on PostgreSQL 9.0+ you have to
use --call-master. Otherwise created backup might fail when used as base for
another replication slave that later on is promoted to standalone.

=back

=head2 COPYRIGHT

The OmniPITR project is Copyright (c) 2009-2012 OmniTI. All rights reserved.

