=head1 OmniPITR - omnipitr-archive

=head2 USAGE

/some/path/omnipitr/bin/omnipitr-archive [options] "%p"

Options:

=over

=item --data-dir (-D)

Where PostgreSQL datadir is located (path)

=item --force-data-dir (-f)

Forces usage of given (or default) data dir even if it doesn't look like
PostgreSQL data directory.

=item --dst-local (-dl)

Where to copy the wal segment on current server (path) (you can provide many of
these).

You can also specify compression per-destination. Check L<COMPRESSION>
section of the doc.

=item --dst-remote (-dr)

Where to copy the wal segment on remote server. Supported ways to transport
files are rsync and rsync over ssh. Please see L<DESCRIPTION> for more
information (you can provide many of these)

You can also specify compression per-destination. Check L<COMPRESSION>
section of the doc.

=item --temp-dir (-t)

Where to create temporary files (defaults to /tmp or I<$TMPDIR> environment
variable location)

=item --log (-l)

Name of logfile (actually template, as it supports %% L<strftime(3)>
markers. Unfortunately due to the %x usage by PostgreSQL, We cannot use %%
macros directly. Instead - any occurence of ^ character in log dir will be first
changed to %, and later on passed to strftime.

=item --state-dir (-s)

Name of directory to use as state-directory to handle errors when sending wal
segments to many locations.

=item --pid-file

Name of file to use for pidfile. If it is specified, than only one copy of
I<omnipitr-archive> (with this pidfile) can run at the same time.

Trying to run second copy of I<omnipitr-archive> will result in an error.

=item --verbose (-v)

Log verbosely what is happening.

=item --gzip-path (-gp)

Full path to gzip program - in case you can't set proper PATH environment
variable.

=item --bzip2-path (-bp)

Full path to bzip2 program - in case you can't set proper PATH environment
variable.

=item --lzma-path (-lp)

Full path to lzma program - in case you can't set proper PATH environment
variable.

=back

=head2 DESCRIPTION

Call to I<omnipitr-archive> should be in I<archive_command> GUC in
I<postgresql.conf>.

Which options should be given depends only on installation, but generally you
will need at least:

=over

=item * --data-dir

PostgreSQL "%p" passed file path relative to I<DATADIR>, so it is required to
know it. If not provided, it is assumed to be "." ( which is perfectly in line
with PostgreSQL assumptions about archive_command ).

=item * --log

to make sure that information is logged someplace about archiving progress

=item * one of --dst-local or --dst-remote

to specify where to send the WAL segments to

=back

If you'll specify more than 1 destination, you will also need to specify
I<--state-dir>

Of couse you can provide many --dst-local or many --dst-remote or many mix of
these.

Generally omnipitr-archive will try to deliver WAL segment to all destinations,
and will fail if B<any> of them will not accept new segment.

Segments will be transferred to destinations in this order:

=over

=item 1. All B<local> destinations, in order provided in command line

=item 2. All B<remote> destinations, in order provided in command line

=back

In case any destination will fail, I<omnipitr-archive> will save state (which
destinations it delivered the file to) and return error to PostgreSQL - which
will cause PostgrerSQL to call I<omnipitr-archive> again for the same WAL
segment after some time.

State directory will be cleared after every successfull file send, so it should
stay small in size (expect 1 file of under 500 bytes).

When constructing command line to put in I<archive_command> PostgreSQL GUC,
please remember that while providing C<"%p" "%f"> will work, I<omnipitr-archive>
requires only "%p"

=head3 Remote destination specification

I<omnipitr-archive> delivers WAL segments to destination using rsync program.
Both direct-rsync and rsync-over-ssh are supported (it's better to use direct
rsync - it uses less resources due to lack of encryption.

Destination url/location should be in a format that is usable by I<rsync>
program.

For example you can use:

=over

=item * rsync://user@remote_host/module/path/

=item * host:/path/

=back

To allow remote delivery you need to have rsync program. In case you're using
rsync over ssh, I<ssh> program has also to be available.

In case your rsync/ssh programs are in custom directories simply set I<$PATH>
environemnt variable before starting PostgreSQL.

=head2 COMPRESSION

Every destination can have specified compression. To use it you should prefix
destination path/url with compression type followed by '=' sign.

Allowed compression types:

=over

=item * gzip

Compresses with gzip program, used file extension is .gz

=item * bzip2

Compresses with bzip2 program, used file extension is .bz2

=item * lzma

Compresses with lzma program, used file extension is .lzma

=back

All compressions are done I<on B<NICE>> to make the operation as unobtrusive as
possible.

All programs are passed I<--stdout> option to compress without modifying source file.

If you want to pass any extra arguments to compression program, you can either:

=over

=item * make a wrapper

Write a program/script that will be named in the same way your actual
compression program is named, but adding some parameters to call

=item * use environment variables

All of supported compression programs use environment variables:

=over

=item * gzip - GZIP

=item * bzip2 - BZIP2

=item * lzma - XZ_OPT

=back

For details - please consult manual to your choosen compression tool.

=back

=head2 EXAMPLES

=head3 Minimal setup, with copying file to local directory:

    archive_command='/.../omnipitr-archive -D /mnt/data/ -l /var/log/omnipitr/archive.log -dl /mnt/wal_archive/ "%p"'

=head3 Minimal setup, with copying file to remote directory over rsync:

    archive_command='/.../omnipitr-archive -D /mnt/data/ -l /var/log/omnipitr/archive.log -dr rsync://slave/postgres/wal_archive/ "%p"'

=head3 2 remote, compressed destinations, 1 local, with auto rotated logfile:

    archive_command='/.../omnipitr-archive -D /mnt/data/ -l /var/log/omnipitr/archive-^Y-^m-^d.log -dr gzip=rsync://slave/postgres/wal_archive/ -dr bzip2=backups@backupserver:/mnt/backups/wal_archive/ -dl /mnt/wal_archive/ -s /var/lib/postgres/.omnipitr/ "%p"'

=head2 COPYRIGHT

The OmniPITR project is Copyright (c) 2009 OmniTI. All rights reserved.

