
=head1 OmniPITR

=head2 TODO

Even while developing first version of the OmniPITR, we know there are things
that could be improved. But first things first - we have to finish development
of base functionality before starting work on new stuff.

Here are the already known about missing features:

=over

=item * Add a way to specify "primary" destination for wal segments.

This would be useful if you have WAL-slave in the same network, and additional
slave, on a network link that can be down. Problems with non-primary
destinations wouldn't stop replication to primary destinations.

=item * Make it possible to provide remote source in omnipitr-restore and
omnipitr-backup-slave (remote, via http/ftp)

=item * Make it possible to provide multiple sources for omnipitr-restore

This is for migration purposes - for example, when you're switching your
walarchive from compressed to not-compressed.

=item * Support sending to cloud storage such as Amazon S3

=item * Add support for xz compression (similar to lzma)

=item * Add support for using ZFS/LVM snapshops.

This has the benefit of keeping required xlogs to a minimum for backups.

=item * report missing statedir on start, and to logs, and not to stderr (or to
both, but add to logs)

=item * make omnipitr-backup-* scripts verify that they are being run as user
running PostgreSQL

=back

=head2 DONE

=over

=item * [1.2.0] make omnipitr-restore don't care about walarchive writability if -r
option is not given

=item * [1.2.0] Add option to skip archiving of xlogs to omnipitr-backup-*

This is assuming the user is keeping their own xlog archive and will limit
the ability to restore a standalone database.

=item * [1.2.0] Ability to use %r in omnipitr-restore instead of relying on
pg_controldata

While definitely good thing, we will still keep code to use pg_controldata as %r
is not available in 8.2.

=item * [1.1.0] Provide support for --help option

Well, it can be helpful to avoid having to type another command to get to docs

=item * [1.1.0] Add support for config file

This has the benefit over command line options that it lets you change the
options without Pg restart (in omnipitr-restore case at least).

=item * [1.1.0] Add --version option to all programs.

=item * [1.1.0] Make temp directories inside given temp-dir, based on pid and/or random
values - to allow easy running (for example) 2 slaves on the same machine.

=item * [0.7.0] Have omnipitr-backup-* look at .backup file to determine exactly what
xlogs it needs to keep for backup integrity.

=item * [0.6.0] Deliver to multiple destinations in parallel

When delivering wal segments to slave server, and to backup destination - we can
reduce the time it takes, by delivering it in parallel.

=item * [0.4.0] Add specialized program to serve as archive_cleanup_command - with
support for compressed walarchive, and pausing removal

=back

=head2 COPYRIGHT

The OmniPITR project is Copyright (c) 2009-2013 OmniTI. All rights reserved.
